帮一个朋友招聘Web开发工程师帮助一个朋友招聘Web开发工程师，Yahoo的工作环境不错，我去过，技术力量很强，很有科研氛围。


    简历请邮件给jinyan_sunny#hotmail.COM；这是我的朋友sunny。


    大家可以在邮件中，注明【梁斌推荐】，


    以下是详细职位说明：（需要对Web优化有经验，对搜索引擎有经验）


   


   


   


   -------------------------------------------------以下是职位描述---------------------------------------


   Company:  Yahoo! Software Research &amp; Development (Beijing) Co. Limited


   Title: Sr. Software Engineer &ndash; Web Development


   Job Location: Beijing, PRC


   


   Job Description


   


   Yahoo! Global R&amp;D Center in Beijing is fully owned and operated by US based Yahoo! Inc.We are seeking passionate and enthusiastic senior developers to be key members of our communication development group, working on our next generation communication applications/products!


   


   This is an opportunity to work with top talent in a rapidly growing area of application/web development to build the next generation communication platform/applications. The successful candidate will join our fast-paced and exciting environment and have the opportunity to contribute to various products on many levels, with the results of your work being viewed by millions of Yahoo! users.


   


   Job Responsibilities


Implementing next-gen communication platform/applications 
Working on the improvement of user experience for Yahoo! Communication products. 
Making performance and architectural improvements


   


   Job Qualification


3+ years professional experience on web application front end development 
Excellent programming skills using JavaScript/DHTML/CSS 
Solid experience on Ajax (JQuery/Prototype/YUI, etc.) 
Knowledge and experience on web browser engine will be highly desirable 
Strong problem solving, troubleshooting and analytical skills 
Knowledge about Linux or Windows operating system is a plus 
C++/Python programming skills is preferable 
Excellent written and verbal communications skills. 
Self motivated with high level of energy and enthusiasm. 
Team player with friendly attitude toward collaboration and cooperation. 
BS/MS in Computer Science or equivalent.


    


   


   Yahoo! Inc. is an equal opportunity employer. For more information or to search all of our openings please visit