关于information Passing(信息传递)Information Passing


   


   Programmer to Team Leader:


   


   "We can't do this proposed project. **CANNOT**. It will involve a major design change and no one in our team knows the


   


   design of this legacy system. And above that, nobody in our company knows the language in which this application has been


   


   written. So even if somebody wants to work on it, they can't. If you ask my personal opinion, the company should never take


   


   these type of projects."


   


   Team Leader to Project Manager:


   


   "This project will involve a design change. Currently, we don't have any staff with experience in this type of work. Also,


   


   the language is unfamiliar to us, so we will have to arrange for some training if we take this project. In my personal


   


   opinion, we are not ready to take on a project of this nature."


   


   Project Manager to 1st Level Manager:


   


   "This project involves a design change in the system and we don't have much experience in that area. Also, not many people


   


   in our company are appropriately trained for it. In my personal opinion, we might be able to do the project but we would


   


   need more time than usual to complete it."


   


   1st Level Manager to Senior Level Manager:


   


   "This project involves design re-engineering. We have some people who have worked in this area and others who know the


   


   implementation language. So they can train other people. In my personal opinion we should take this project, but with


   


   caution."


   


   Senior Level Manager to CEO:


   


   "This project will demonstrate to the industry our capabilities in remodeling the design of a complete legacy system. We


   


   have all the necessary skills and people to execute this project successfully. Some people have already given in-house


   


   training in this area to other staff members. In my personal opinion, we should not let this project slip by us under any


   


   circumstances."


   


   CEO to Client:


   


   "This is the type of project in which our company specializes. We have executed many projects of the same nature for many


   


   large clients. Trust me when I say that we are the most competent firm in the industry for doing this kind of work. It is my


   


   personal opinion that we can execute this project successfully and well within the given time frame."